Start the server using "yarn start"

# prj-boffis2002
Web atelier project by Sergio Boffi

Hi, im Sergio Boffi, and here is my project, which is called BlinkyChess.
The website i built is based only on the knowledge i got from the course SA3 in fall semester 2023/2024.
I have based the website on the exercises covered in the course, some of the main pages are really similiar for this reason, but obviously i had to make some little changes to these pages.
My website is a platform to play chess online against other real people only, you can register, login and play a ranked or not ranked game, chossing the duration of the match and pressing the PLAY button, the matchmaking will start.
As soon as another player with the same choices (ranked and time) will look for a game, the two players will be matched, and the game will start.
All the normal rules have been implemented in the game (the rules applied are the ones suggested from the library Chess.js https://github.com/jhlywa/chess.js/blob/master/README.md ).
When the match is over (win,loss or draw) a popup message will appear with a button to make you go back to the home page.
No surrender button has been implemented.
From the homepage the user can also spectate an ongoing match.
The user icon on the header allows either to logout or to check your profile, where are printed some of your gaming statistics.


Talking about the programming side: as i already said, i based the skeleton of the website on the exercises i made, so that the database connection, routes, sockets handling have been easier to implement and to check.
The sockets are used to notify the players of a move and to notify a connection or disconnection from the match (i used rooms to make sure only the people playing at that match are notified and not everybody).
The database name is BlinkyChess, and it contains two collections: users and games.
Every game has:

-Id         autogenerated by mongodb, it's unique for every game, in order to identify themselves
-White      the username of the player on the whites side
-Black      the username of the player on the blacks side
-Ranked     a boolean which represents if either the rank has to be incremented/decremented at the end of the match
-Board      it's a string called "fen" which represents the state of the chessboard
-Wtime      the time remaining to white player
-Btime      the time remaining to black player


Every user has:

-Id         autogenerated by mongodb, it's unique for every game, in order to identify themselves (but not necessary, the username is unique too, matter of fact i use the username to identify the users)
-Username   the username of the user
-Password   the password of the user    
-lost       the number of lost games
-won        the number of won games
-elo        the number of "ranked points" (the starting number is 1200, every win is +15, every lost is -15)
-lasts      is a string of 10 char representing the results of the last 10 games


The main file which rules every match is game.js (public/js/game.js), there i use the library chess.js to elborate every move, i tell him how the chessboard situation is, i ask him to move the piece the user wants to move, and it sends me back the new chessboard.
I also tried my best to make the rendering of the pages as dynamic as possible, reducing code duplications, for example the rendering of the chessboard is the same for black and white player, it's just rendered upside down.